DOCS-7866 added Simple rule creator for CSM Threats (#23100)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/threats/workload_security_rules/custom_rules.md

  text: "Learn more about Security notification variables"
---

This topic explains how to create custom Datadog Agent and detection rules for [CMS Threats][8].

In addition to the out of the box (OOTB) [default Agent and detection rules][7], you can write custom Agent and detection rules. Custom rules help to detect events Datadog is not detecting with its OOTB rules.

## Custom detection rules summary

> Understanding the dependency detection rules have on Agent rules is important when you want to use custom rules. Detection rules are composed of existing, deployed Agent rules and additional expression parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom detection rules depend on Agent rules. They are composed of existing, deployed Agent rules and additional expression parameters. 
```
I found the copy as written a little hard to parse -- will this work? I wasn't sure I captured your meaning accurately.

- **Simple:** Use the **Simple rule creator** to create the custom Agent and detection rules together.
  - For steps on using the **Simple rule creator**, see [Create the custom Agent and detection rules together](#create-the-custom-agent-and-detection-rules-together).
- **Advanced:**  Create custom Agent and detection rules individually by defining their threat detection expressions. 
  - For steps on this method, see [Create a custom agent rule](#create-a-custom-agent-rule) and [Create a custom detection rule](#create-a-custom-detection-rule).

## Create the custom Agent and detection rules together

The **Simple rule creator** option helps you create the Agent and dependent detection rules together, and ensures that the Agent rule is referenced in the detection rules. Using this tool is faster than the advanced method of creating the Agent and detection rules separately.

As you define the rules using this tool, the threat expressions generated for these rules are displayed in the tool.

To use the simple rule creator:

1. In [Agent Configuration][4] or [Threat Detection Rules][3], select **New Rule**, and then select **Simple rule creator**.

> 2. Define the detection.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Define the detection. To monitor your resource effectively, you have the following detection type options:
```

   - To detect unauthorized changes to files, select **File integrity monitoring (FIM)**.
   - To track and analyze system software processes for malicious behavior or policy violations, select **Process activity monitoring**.
   - Enter the file/process names or paths to monitor. 
3. Specify more conditions. Enter any arguments to add to the threat rule expression. For example, the argument `foo` is added as `process.argv in ["foo"]`.
4. Set severity and notification lists. 
   - Select the severity for the signal generated when this threat is detected. 

>    - Select notification lists to notify when a signa is generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Select notification lists to notify when a signal is generated.
```

> 5. Add rule name and description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add the rule name and description.
```

   
   Here's an example of a new FIM rule, including the expressions generated for each rule.

    {{< img src="/security/csm/csm_threats_simple_rule_creator.png" alt="Simple rule creator example" style="width:100%;" >}}

> 6. Select **Create `<NUMBER>` Rules**.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Select **Create _N_ Rules**.
```

> 6. Select **Create `<<NUMBER>>` Rules**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Select **Create `<NUMBER>` Rules**.
```
This came up in backroom today, but a simpler convention would be **Create _N_ Rules**, if you prefer that.

7. In **Generate Rules**, select **Confirm**. The rules are generated.
8. Select **Finish**. The [Agent Configuration][3] page displays the new rules.
9. In [Agent Configuration][3], select **Deploy Agent Policy**.

## Create a custom Agent rule

> You can create an individual custom Agent rule, deploy it as a [new Agent policy](#deploy-the-policy-in-your-environment), and then reference it in a [custom detection rule](#create-a-custom-detection-rule).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create an individual custom Agent rule, deploy it as a [new Agent policy](#deploy-the-policy-in-your-environment), and reference it in a [custom detection rule](#create-a-custom-detection-rule).
```
